An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: gauthier lasou
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2256463
Submitted on
28 April 2021
Submitted by
gauthier lasou
User type
EU citizen
Country of origin
France
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Show original language (FR)
Warning: Automatic translations may not be 100% accurate.

A European regulation that will set out ethical and legal requirements for AI usage in Europe.
written in English, 108 pages + annexes, impact studies, etc.

To my knowledge, you are addressing European citizens who do not all understand English, especially when a specific jargon is used to define common rules.

For my part, although I read English, I am against this regulation only because it was not written in a language which I have sufficient knowledge to make. 

by publishing these documents in only one language, which is no longer a reference to one of the EU countries, you create a de facto inequality in the treatment, understanding and acceptance of the rules you want to set.

Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility