An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: Joanna Karczewska
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2522258
Submitted on
10 June 2021
Submitted by
Joanna Karczewska
User type
EU citizen
Country of origin
Poland
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements

The Proposal for an Artificial Intelligence Act includes the following statement: "A comprehensive ex-ante conformity assessment through internal checks, combined with a strong ex-post enforcement, could be an effective and reasonable solution for those systems, given the early phase of the regulatory intervention and the fact the AI sector is very innovative and expertise for auditing is only now being accumulated." I would like to point out that both leading international associations that certify auditors have already published guidelines concerning auditing AI: The IIA’s Artificial Intelligence Auditing Framework (in 2017) and ISACA's Auditing Artificial Intelligence (in 2018, revised in 2021). So the expertise is already available.

Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility