An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: Alliance VITA
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2625382
Submitted on
14 June 2021
Submitted by
Caroline Roux
User type
Non-governmental organisation (NGO)
Organisation
Alliance VITA
Organisation size
Small (10 to 49 employees)
Country of origin
France
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Show original language (FR)
Warning: Automatic translations may not be 100% accurate.

Alliance VITA would like to urge the Commission to take more account, in its proposal for a Regulation on Artificial Intelligence, of a number of key principles relating to respect for fundamental rights and the dignity of individuals, in particular in the field of medicine and healthcare. 

It should be borne in mind that the rise of Artificielle Intelligence (AI) has led to many new challenges in this regard.
For example, the development of medical robots raises questions about the decision-making criteria and the place of the doctor in the field of medical care and treatment. The over-valorisation of AI would reduce human intelligence to its rational facet to the detriment of the body, relational and spiritual intelligences essential to humanity. 

The mass collection of data (Big Data) raises the question of the use of personal data and informed consent of individuals. As pointed out by the National Council of the Ordre des Médecins (Médecins and Patients in the World of Data, algorithms and Artificial Intelligence, January 2018), the development of a digital society free of all constraints could exacerbate inequalities between citizens: “In the world of data and algorithms, citizens could come, in return for easy access to everything (...), to abdiate their freedoms by themselves, and the most vulnerable would be the most vulnerable”. 

The principle of equal enjoyment of rights and freedoms by individuals cannot be called into question because of the vulnerability of certain persons, in particular where this vulnerability proves to be reinforced by AI, as the explanatory notes to the draft regulation rightly point out in points 3.5 and 5.2.2.

Therefore, as currently drafted, the draft Regulation seems to take insufficient account of the need for special and effective protection of the fundamental rights of individuals, in particular those whose vulnerability would be further increased by the development of AI.
Attention to the accessibility of AI systems for persons with disabilities (Article 69), as well as the prohibition of AI systems aimed at exploiting people’s vulnerabilities (Article 5), are of course crucial.

However, a step further needs to be taken, effectively making all the provisions of the future regulation conditional on respect for the fundamental ethical principle that technologies must serve human beings and society. 

In particular in the medical field, decision-making criteria and algorithms must be common and legible. In any event, it must remain a place for intuitive human thinking and an ethical approach to research protocols.

The future regulation must also ensure that the person’s consent is required in all circumstances. There are no relevant algorithms without quality data. Each individual is always the digital data generator, most of the time without his or her knowledge. It is therefore essential to give individuals power over their personal data with a free arbitrator.

Finally, an obligation of non-interference should be included in the Regulation. The predictive potential of technologies can seriously hamper the economic and social life of a person where the likelihood of an illness occurring would prevent him from entering into an insurance policy or obtaining a bank loan, for example. It is therefore essential to establish clear and firm limits which should not be exceeded.

Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility