An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: Austrian Federal Economic Chamber (WKO)
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2636257
Submitted on
22 June 2021
Submitted by
Florian Schmalz
User type
Business association
Organisation
Austrian Federal Economic Chamber (WKO)
Organisation size
Large (250 or more)
Country of origin
Austria
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Show original language (DE)
Warning: Automatic translations may not be 100% accurate.

WKÖ-Position Paper on the Regulatory Framework for Artificial Intelligence

Technological development is progressing and AI applications are becoming increasingly diverse, so their own uniform rules are to be welcomed in principle. In order to guarantee a level playing field, each AI system in the internal market must comply with the same requirements. 

The WKÖ welcomes in principle the European Commission’s (“Commission”) plan to create a legal framework for AI. However, this must ensure that the potential of artificial intelligence can be further exploited in the future and that legal certainty is created, while ensuring a high level of protection.  

We consider it particularly important that existing standards and requirements are included in an overall assessment in order to avoid double and gold-plating.

Feedback from: Austrian Federal Economic Chamber (WKO)
EN
(112.2 KB - PDF - 1 page)
Available soon
Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility