An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: Związek Pracodawców Business & Science Poland
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2665431
Submitted on
05 August 2021
Submitted by
Natalia Matyba
User type
Business association
Organisation
Związek Pracodawców Business & Science Poland
Organisation size
Small (10 to 49 employees)
Country of origin
Poland
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Show original language (PL)
Warning: Automatic translations may not be 100% accurate.

Business & Science Poland (BSP) welcoming the possibility to comment on the proposal
for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on laying down harmonised rules on Artificial Intelligence (Artificial Intelligence Act) and amending certain union legislative acts (COM(2021) 206 final). EC represent leading Polish entities especially from energy-intensive industry, air transport, cyber and IT sector, postal services, and financial markets employing over one HUNDRED thousand employees in Poland, other European Union (EU) the Member States, and outside the EU. BSP is also in a partnership with R & D, academic, and SME organisations. Topics related to Artificial Intelligence are within the scope of our interests. 
Please find attached all our comments due to regulation.

Feedback from: Związek Pracodawców Business & Science Poland
EN
(266.1 KB - PDF - 1 page)
Available soon
Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility