An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: CFE-CGC
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2665597
Submitted on
06 August 2021
Submitted by
Nicolas Blanc
User type
Trade union
Organisation
CFE-CGC
Organisation size
Large (250 or more)
Country of origin
France
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Show original language (FR)
Warning: Automatic translations may not be 100% accurate.

The French Confederation of Management — Confédération générale des cadres (CFE-CGC) is a French employee union founded on 15 October 1944 under the name of Confédération générale des cadres (CGC), which has the characteristic of defending the interests of a specific professional category, management. 
The CFE-CGC welcomes the European Commission’s proposal for a regulation establishing a regulatory framework for artificial intelligence.
It is a good thing for us that a regulatory framework provides a framework for business practices with the arrival of ‘algorithmic’ management.
The challenges are high in terms of accountability and freedom with decision-making tools that can be opaque and biased.  
Creating obligations and associated penalties, in line with what was done on the GDPR, makes it possible to empower AI providers, while informing and protecting AI users.

Feedback from: CFE-CGC
EN
(117.2 KB - PDF - 1 page)
Available soon
Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility