An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: BIL Sweden
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2665297
Submitted on
04 August 2021
Submitted by
Maria BACKLUND
User type
Business association
Organisation
BIL Sweden
Organisation size
Small (10 to 49 employees)
Country of origin
Sweden
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Show original language (SV)
Warning: Automatic translations may not be 100% accurate.

Car Sweden is concerned for the opportunity by the Commission to submit comments on the proposed AI Act, and is pledged to be available for further discussions or any irregularities. 
Attacked please find BIL Sweden’s response to the European Commission’s public consultation on “Proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down harmonised rules on artistic intelligence (Artificial Intelligence Act) and amending certain Union legislative acts”, 2021/0106 (COD).

Feedback from: BIL Sweden
EN
(86.9 KB - PDF - 1 page)
Available soon
Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility