An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: Teachers' Union of Ireland
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2661971
Submitted on
09 July 2021
Submitted by
David Duffy
User type
Trade union
Organisation
Teachers' Union of Ireland
Organisation size
Small (10 to 49 employees)
Country of origin
Ireland
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements

The Teachers' union of Ireland (TUI) welcomes the publication of the AI Regulation as it sets the ground for the first comprehensive EU regulation on Artificial Intelligence to ensure a controlled development of AI tools in education and address the risks connected to their use by teachers, academic, other education personnel and students. While the TUI recognises the potential of digital technologies and Artificial Intelligence tools to bring about improvements in education, it also underlines the numerous ethical concerns related to their trustworthiness, data privacy, accountability, transparency and their impact on equality and inclusion in education. The TUI underlines that further research at national and European level is needed to assess and address the risks connected to the use of Artificial Intelligence in education with constant and meaningful consultation with education social partners.

AI in education as a high-risk:
The TUI welcomes that the AI Regulation classifies the use of AI tools in education and vocational training as high-risk underlining that “When improperly designed and used, such systems may violate the right to education and training as well as the right not to be discriminated against and perpetuate historical patterns of discrimination”. The TUI emphasises that the EU Commission initiative should ensure that the development of Artificial Intelligence in education does not infringe the human right of all individuals to have equal access to quality education. This is enshrined in the first and third principles of the European Pillar of Social Rights and the European Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The TUI supports the European Commission’s proposal to set stricter horizontal legal requirements for the AI tools used in the education sector. The AI Regulation proposal also foresees the establishment of a risk management system to analyse the risks associated with the use of the AI tools in education and monitor them during the entire lifecycle of the AI tools. In this regard, the TUI believes that the European Commission should support the development of clear and binding measures, including ethical guidelines, to address the risks that AI tools pose concerning transparency, accountability, intellectual property rights, data privacy, cyber-safety, equality and environmental protection.

Governance:
The Proposal for Regulation seeks to establish a governance system leading to the establishment of a European Artificial Intelligence Board with the involvement of national authorities to monitor the implementation of the regulation. Nevertheless, the TUI underlines that the effective implementation of the AI legislation in education requires the meaningful involvement of teachers, academics and education staff as co-creators of Artificial Intelligence tools in education. Education trade unions have a crucial role to play to addressing the risks of Artificial Intelligence in education and bring the perspective of AI users on the implementation of the regulation. 

The role of teachers in education:
Teachers, academics and other education personnel play a crucial role in fostering the full human potential of students and their role in education must be preserved. The TUI calls on the European Commission and the Member States to interdict the Artificial Intelligence tools that are designed to replace education personnel or can damage the social value and the quality of education. Besides, the AI Regulation should ensure that the development of AI in education does not reduce the role of teachers to mere providers of instructions but rather serves as a supporting tool for the teaching profession.

EdTech expansion and issues of intellectual property rights, data privacy of teachers:
The TUI points out that the development of the use of Artificial Intelligence in education has been accompanied by the often adverse expansion of Ed-tech companies in their influence in the education sector.

Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility