An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: Fondation pour le droit continental
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2665524
Submitted on
06 August 2021
Submitted by
Anne-Charlotte GROS
User type
Other
Organisation
Fondation pour le droit continental
Organisation size
Medium (50 to 249 employees)
Country of origin
France
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Show original language (FR)
Warning: Automatic translations may not be 100% accurate.

With the proposal for a Regulation on Artificial Intelligence (AI) presented on 21 April 2021, the European Commission reaffirms the strategic importance of AI for Europe and the need to regulate its use in the various application sectors. We would like to welcome this unique initiative in the world, which places artificial intelligence at the centre of legal, political and societal reflections, from which it is now inextricably linked. By investing in the regulatory ground, the European Union intends to position itself as a leader, as it has already done with the GDPR and this is excellent news. 

As with the GDPR, the aim is to build trust while enabling innovation. The risk approach is balanced (I) to allow for a fair deployment of AI systems in Europe. However, given its specific and sensitive challenges, we call for the justice sector to be treated as a highly sensitive sector for our citizens (II). We regret that the text is too restrictive and does not sufficiently understand the challenges of predictive justice with the necessary safeguards for the proper respect of the fundamental rights of individuals. 

(continued in attached “Note IA and Justice in Europe”)

Feedback from: Fondation pour le droit continental
EN
(46.7 KB - DOCX - 1 page)
Available soon
Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility