An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: ASF - ASSOCIATION FRANCAISE DES SOCIETES FINANCIERES
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2665226
Submitted on
02 August 2021
Submitted by
corinne denaeyer
User type
Business association
Organisation
ASF - ASSOCIATION FRANCAISE DES SOCIETES FINANCIERES
Organisation size
Small (10 to 49 employees)
Country of origin
France
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Show original language (FR)
Warning: Automatic translations may not be 100% accurate.

The Association Française des Sociétés Financières (ASF) represents specialised credit finance and financial and investment services. FSA member institutions finance more than 20 % of loans to the private sector.

Preliminary remarks
The Association Française des Sociétés Financières (ASF) welcomes the public consultation launched last April on the draft regulation laying down harmonised rules on artificial intelligence.
In our view, this draft regulation is a positive point as it takes into account the use of AI systems in the relationship between businesses and their customers.
Nevertheless, the FSA recalls that the use of personal data necessary for the functioning of AI is already regulated as regards the conditions and purposes of data processing and retention, as well as the exercise of individuals’ rights (right to information, right to object, right of access, right of rectification, etc.), in order to protect the privacy and freedoms of data subjects. 
Finally, legal provisions prohibit different forms of discrimination, so we already have an arsenal providing legal certainty in the use of AI.

Feedback from: ASF - ASSOCIATION FRANCAISE DES SOCIETES FINANCIERES
EN
(195.5 KB - PDF - 1 page)
Available soon
Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility