An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: Numeum
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2663064
Submitted on
26 July 2021
User type
Trade union
Organisation
Numeum
Organisation size
Small (10 to 49 employees)
Country of origin
France
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Show original language (FR)
Warning: Automatic translations may not be 100% accurate.

Numeum supports the European Commission in its ambition to stimulate the development and uptake of AI and new technologies, while ensuring that potential risks are adequately addressed. The Commission’s desire to create a European system capable of ensuring citizens’ trust and stimulating the uptake of AI uses, while ensuring that companies in the deployment of their AI products and applications and the capacity to innovate in Europe, seems to us to be ambitious and tailored to the challenges of developing the potential of AI in Europe. 

Given the diversity of AI applications and technologies, we welcome the fact that the Commission adopts a targeted and risk-based approach. Such an approach should be based on clear definitions and take into account the risk posed by the deployment of an AI system, the field of application, the type of deployment and the nature of the risks.  

Please find attached the details of our position.

Feedback from: Numeum
EN
(277.5 KB - PDF - 1 page)
Available soon
Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility