An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: CENTRO ESPAÑOL DE DERECHOS REPROGRÁFICOS EGDPI (CEDRO)
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2662182
Submitted on
13 July 2021
Submitted by
MERCEDES MORAN
User type
Other
Organisation
CENTRO ESPAÑOL DE DERECHOS REPROGRÁFICOS EGDPI (CEDRO)
Organisation size
Small (10 to 49 employees)
Country of origin
Spain
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Show original language (ES)
Warning: Automatic translations may not be 100% accurate.

These are the contributions of the SPANISH CENTRE OF REPROGRATIVE DERECHOS EGDPI (CEDRO) to the proposal for a Regulation COM (2021) 206 on Artificial Intelligence Act.

Cedro is an intellectual property rights management organisation established in Spain, authorised by the Ministry of Culture and Sport, in accordance with Spanish law, to carry out its objectives. Cedro has been operating since 1988 and is the only management body authorised in Spain to represent writers, translators, journalists and publishers of books, magazines, newspapers and sheet music. More information on the Entity can be found at https://www.cedro.org/ 

The considerations set out in the attached document are based on the possible implications that Artificial Intelligence (AI) may have on the intellectual property rights of the collective that CEDRO represents and which, in our consideration, the proposal for a regulation should address.

Feedback from: CENTRO ESPAÑOL DE DERECHOS REPROGRÁFICOS EGDPI (CEDRO)
EN
(169.2 KB - PDF - 1 page)
Available soon
Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility