An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: Bundesverband Digitale Wirtschaft (BVDW) e.V.
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2665487
Submitted on
06 August 2021
Submitted by
Katharina Rieke
User type
Business association
Organisation
Bundesverband Digitale Wirtschaft (BVDW) e.V.
Organisation size
Small (10 to 49 employees)
Country of origin
Germany
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Show original language (DE)
Warning: Automatic translations may not be 100% accurate.

The Bundesverband Digitale Wirtschaft (BVDW) e.V. is the representative body for businesses that operate digital business models or whose value creation is based on the use of digital technologies. As a driver, signposting and accelerator of digital business models, BVDW represents the interests of the digital economy vis-à-vis politics and society and promotes market transparency and innovation-friendly framework conditions. Its network of experts provides guidance on a central area of the future with figures, data and facts.

BVDW thanked for the possibility of submitting an opinion and attaches its detailed position as a separate document. 

In the BVDW’s view, the following are particularly problematic:
or too broad definition of AI;
oLegal uncertainties in general and in particular in relation to high-risk AI;
o the multiplicity of contradictions in the proposal, in particular as regards transparency obligations;
or the sometimes disproportionate requirements and bureaucracy associated with a high fine in the proposal.

In the BVDW’s view, an innovation-friendly and trustworthy ‘AI made in Europe’ needs:
1.Unambiguous definitions of terms, clear scope and legal certainty;
2.Effect regulation instead of technical regulation; 
3.Less red tape; 
4.Urgent technical specifications;

Feedback from: Bundesverband Digitale Wirtschaft (BVDW) e.V.
EN
(154.5 KB - PDF - 1 page)
Available soon
Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility