An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: European Cancer Organisation
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2665530
Submitted on
06 August 2021
Submitted by
Amélie de Martini
User type
Non-governmental organisation (NGO)
Organisation
European Cancer Organisation
Organisation size
Small (10 to 49 employees)
Country of origin
Belgium
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements

Because AI systems used in healthcare must be trustworthy and because lives and patients’ outcomes depend on it, the European Cancer Organisation recognises the necessity of a strong pan European framework to ensure the trustworthiness of AI in healthcare. The European Cancer Organisation therefore welcomes the aim of the European Commission to address a number of legal and ethical issues, raised by AI, to foster the development and uptake of AI.  

- As the applications of AI systems in healthcare are still at a comparatively early stage, with many innovations still occurring, the European Cancer Organisation agrees with the European Commission’s intended approach of maintaining evolving definitions in the field of AI regulation. 

- Fundamental to the success of AI, and its regulation, including ensuring its safety, reliability and trustworthiness are the crucial requirements of data quality, transparency and human oversight. This should be embedded in the EU’s approach to AI regulation. 
 
- The European Cancer Organisation welcomes efforts made to ensure that regulation is proportionate to risk, including for AI. Most applications of AI in clinical settings will be classified as high risk under this new regulation, meaning that a conformity assessment process will be required to permit the use of the AI function. It is of great importance that the conformity assessment process includes the possibility for healthcare professional views and perspectives to be taken into consideration during this decision-making. Healthcare professionals are not only a key end user, but also have high consciousness of the practical safety risks and ethical considerations.
 
- Specific consideration is required on the integration of this new regulation with existing EU regulations in the field of health. An example in this regard is the Medical Devices Regulation which already regulates “AI with an intended medical purpose”. As the healthcare environment is already highly regulated, it is important that the AI Regulation does not overlap with other conformity assessment schemes and surveillance systems. Conflicting regulations should be avoided not to overcomplicate decisions in clinical settings.

Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility