An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: Anonymous
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2665287
Submitted on
03 August 2021
User type
EU citizen
Country of origin
France
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements

This proposal for a legal act has  option 3 towards  establishing ''MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS'' instead of ''PROHIBITION or OBLIGATIONS''.  Eu is not a technology organisation to  specify  procurements or standards or ''encouraging the development of standards'' to be for the sole EU island. The standards are found & recognized to be the best worldwide . 

This wireless law is based among other things ''on delegated acts to be adopted under the RED'' defined in Ares(2019)476926-28/01/2019.  Where, the last parapraph states: ''...this initiative does not require adoption by the Member States of new transportation/implementation measures''

A  wireless law  ought to  list the wrong doings affecting ''protection of personal data, non- discrimination, product safety and product liability'' as far as any simple EU citezen is concerned and a  technical  industry/ies alone. 
I noticed:
GRDP is reduced by Google, Microsoft,  … & even by  ISP's to tick many times, when a  publication is forwarded to authorize cookies: Advertizers, Geolocalisation, etc...
 if an IBAN can be  known by a party, without authorisantion a withdrowal from  bank account is possible. 
Tried to  order from my recurrent  supplier an article. For some reason the order canceled  no way to be erased. The Accounting bot lists debits and the IA claims settlements ...
So, I think any IA developped should be tested by a  Single, secure & Unique Trust Centre (SSUTC) to verifying the  Machine Learning rights and obligations... Such  SSUTC can replicated & identical  in each EU Member State and be upadated real-time M2M...

Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility