An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2662935
Submitted on
23 July 2021
Submitted by
Josua Semme
User type
Company/business
Organisation
EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG
Organisation size
Large (250 or more)
Country of origin
Germany
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Show original language (DE)
Warning: Automatic translations may not be 100% accurate.

In the view of EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG, the European Commission’s legislative proposal on Artificial Intelligence (AI) has drawn up a regulation which offers opportunities.

At first sight, this is our first brief feedback from an energy point of view and the operation of critical infrastructure. 

On the last page of the attached document, an overview of AI Use-Cases can be found in a risk spectrum.

Feedback from: EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG
EN
(198.8 KB - PDF - 1 page)
Available soon
Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility