An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: SICK AG
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2662771
Submitted on
22 July 2021
Submitted by
Volker Schaber
User type
Company/business
Organisation
SICK AG
Organisation size
Large (250 or more)
Country of origin
Germany
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements

The proposed regulation is a welcome initiative but needs significant improvement in some details to be applicable in practice to the cases for which it is intended.

SICK AG urgently recommends the deletion of the "Bayesian estimation" from the ANNEX I (Paragraph C).  
Bayesian techniques are not artificial intelligence, but well-proven mathematical formulas. These methods are well established in several applications in the machinery sector. For these mathematical methods the proposed requirements are unreasonable and will lead to excessive costs and to disadvantages for the European mechanical engineering industry. 
Bayesian techniques are deterministic and do not require any training (e.g. machine learning), unlike the AI techniques from Annex I (a) and (b). 
Therefore the requirements for transparency ("sufficiently transparent") as well as for the behavior of the output as stated in Article 13 (paragraph 1) are not applicable for Bayesian methods.

Article 10 Data and data governance/ Paragraph 3: "free of errors and complete.
SICK AG urgently recommends the deletion of the point "free of errors and complete" from the Article 10. Absolute freedom from errors and completeness of the data obtained is not possible. The risk management measures from Article 9 (4) already take into account the residual risk sufficiently and thus also the occurrence of errors and natural statistical coverage (completeness).

Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility