An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: LA POSTE
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2665608
Submitted on
06 August 2021
Submitted by
Gaelle Kulig
User type
Company/business
Organisation
LA POSTE
Organisation size
Large (250 or more)
Country of origin
France
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Show original language (FR)
Warning: Automatic translations may not be 100% accurate.

According to Le Groupe La Poste, Hub France IA and Villa Numeris, artificial intelligence (AI) offers many opportunities for innovation and growth and we want to realise its full potential.

The La Poste Group, which places digital and AI among its priority and strategic development priorities in the context of the ‘La Poste 2030, committed for you’ strategic plan, the Hub France IA, the association for the promotion of artificial intelligence in France, the driving force and federator of AI initiatives in France and Villa Numeris, an association promoting a human-based European digital model, decided to pool their expertise in order to fully participate in the European debates on AI and ethics. 

We therefore look forward to sharing our views during the European Commission’s public consultation on the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down harmonised rules on artificial intelligence (Artificial Intelligence Act) and amending certain Union legislation. 

You will find our joint contribution and proposals in the attached file.

Feedback from: LA POSTE
EN
(392.1 KB - PDF - 1 page)
Available soon
Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility