An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: Federation of German Industries / Bundesverband der Deutschen Industrie (BDI)
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2665540
Submitted on
06 August 2021
Submitted by
Oliver Klein
User type
Business association
Organisation
Federation of German Industries / Bundesverband der Deutschen Industrie (BDI)
Organisation size
Medium (50 to 249 employees)
Country of origin
Germany
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements

Artificial Intelligence (AI) is one of the most important key technologies in industry. Therefore, unbureaucratic and innovation-friendly framework conditions for the use of AI are a central prerequisite for securing the innovation capacity and competitiveness of the German and European industry. 

However, the rules on AI proposed by the European Commission need to be amended significantly. Against this background, the Federation of German Industries (BDI) is preparing a detailed statement on the regulation proposal, which will be available at https://english.bdi.eu/publication/news/proposal-for-a-regulation-on-artificial-intelligence/ after the consultation of BDI’s committees has been finished.

Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility