An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: Netherlands Normalisation Institute (NEN)
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2665329
Submitted on
04 August 2021
Submitted by
Lysette Meuleman
User type
Other
Organisation
Netherlands Normalisation Institute (NEN)
Organisation size
Large (250 or more)
Country of origin
Netherlands
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Show original language (NL)
Warning: Automatic translations may not be 100% accurate.

The Medical Device/AI Expert Group (MD-AIG) established by Netherlands Normalisation Institute (NEN) welcoming the European Commission’s (EU) proposal for a Regulation laying down harmonised rules on Artificial Intelligence to ensure the safety and security of European consumers in the area of Artificial Intelligence. Attached document providing full feedback on the AI Act seen from the medical device sector perspective and an analysis of the AI Act in light of the Medical Device Regulation.

Feedback from: Netherlands Normalisation Institute (NEN)
EN
(734.6 KB - PDF - 1 page)
Available soon
Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility