An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: Verband kommunaler Unternehmen e.V.
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2665488
Submitted on
06 August 2021
Submitted by
Simon Kessel
User type
Company/business
Organisation
Verband kommunaler Unternehmen e.V.
Organisation size
Medium (50 to 249 employees)
Country of origin
Germany
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Show original language (DE)
Warning: Automatic translations may not be 100% accurate.

The VKU is grateful for the opportunity to comment on the Commission’s proposal for a regulation on harmonised rules for artificial intelligence. 
We welcome the risk-based approach taken by the Commission in its proposal. This does not affect the majority of AI applications as they do not pose any risk. 

It is important now that the scope of the proposal for a regulation covers only suitably risky schemes. This means, first, that only systems that are directly used in the high-risk area have to comply with the strict requirements. Secondly, the definition of artificial intelligence should not include traditional algorithms.

Municipal companies already use artificial intelligence in many areas. In addition to the snapshot, the medium- to long-term perspective is very relevant, as AI will be used more widely and in all business areas in the future. In addition, the amount of data from smart sensing will grow sharply, enabling and promoting the use of AI in many business areas. Already today, the use of artificial intelligence is being considered in a wide range of operations and businesses, such as distribution, customer interfaces, maintenance of machinery and equipment, network and traffic management, and in some cases already developed by the companies themselves or in cooperation with partners. In addition, open source solutions are also used or AI solutions are purchased, which are partly adapted to the specific business situations. Ultimately, companies can also develop their own or co-develop with partners in AI systems, which could then also be offered on the market.

Feedback from: Verband kommunaler Unternehmen e.V.
EN
(485.9 KB - PDF - 1 page)
Available soon
Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility