An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: Verband der TÜV e. V.
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2665436
Submitted on
05 August 2021
Submitted by
Johannes Kröhnert
User type
Business association
Organisation
Verband der TÜV e. V.
Organisation size
Small (10 to 49 employees)
Country of origin
Germany
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Show original language (DE)
Warning: Automatic translations may not be 100% accurate.

TÜV welcomes the European Commission’s initiative to create a binding framework for regulating systems based on the use of artificial intelligence. A robust regulatory framework is essential to ensure people’s trust in AI-based products and systems and thus the acceptance of this new digital technology.

In the view of the TÜV Association, however, the present draft regulation is not sufficiently ambitious and falls short of the Commission’s own ambition to create an ecosystem of trust. An ecosystem of trust can only be created by prioritising the safety of AI in the design of the regulatory framework. The Commission’s draft proposal needs to be improved as follows:

— Reduce risk classes in a comprehensible way and prioritise effective protection of legal property rights
— provide for independent third-party testing of high-risk AI systems on a continuous basis
— introduce risk-appropriate classification rules for high-risk applications
Risks to protected legal assets must be the only yardstick to supplement the list of high-risk AI systems
— Possible means of appeal against decisions taken by notified bodies and uniform rules throughout Europe 

Please find attached our opinion explaining in more detail our suggestions for improvement.

Feedback from: Verband der TÜV e. V.
EN
(1.7 MB - PDF - 1 page)
Available soon
Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility