An official website of the European Union
How do you know?

This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences.

Accept all cookies
Accept only essential cookies
Log in
EN
Search
Law
Feedback from: Koalicja AI w Zdrowiu & Grupa Robocza ds. Sztucznej Inteligencji - sekcja ds. zdrowia
Have your say - Public Consultations and Feedback
Published initiatives
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Feedback from:
Feedback reference
F2665551
Submitted on
06 August 2021
Submitted by
Rafał Lorent
User type
Other
Organisation
Koalicja AI w Zdrowiu & Grupa Robocza ds. Sztucznej Inteligencji - sekcja ds. zdrowia
Organisation size
Medium (50 to 249 employees)
Country of origin
Poland
Initiative
Artificial intelligence – ethical and legal requirements
Show original language (PL)
Warning: Automatic translations may not be 100% accurate.

And submitting the position towards the European Commission’s proposal for the Artificial Intelligence Act on behalf of the ‘AI in Health Coalition’ and the Group on The ‘Artificial Intelligence Group – Health Section’.

The AI in Health Coalition including technological, pharmaceutical and medical care companies with local and global reach. EC share an interest in developing the potential of artificial intelligence. Use and conduct research and development works on technologies enabling the use of artificial intelligence in the field of, among others: Medical care, including Telemedicine and advanced diagnostics, management in health care, clinical trials, distribution of medicinal products. Creation of medicinal products and medical devices that use these technologies.

The Artificial Intelligence Group – Health Section is an expert group that was created at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Poland. The group brings together dozens of experts from the private and public sectors who deal with issues related to to artificial intelligence in health care. The Group’s objective is to work out legislative solutions enabling the effective and safe development and implementation of AI in health, as well as education and popularisation of solutions based on AI.

Feedback from: Koalicja AI w Zdrowiu & Grupa Robocza ds. Sztucznej Inteligencji - sekcja ds. zdrowia
EN
(616.2 KB - PDF - 1 page)
Available soon
Report an issue with this feedback
All feedback

The views and opinions expressed here are entirely those of the author(s) and do not reflect the official opinion of the European Commission. The Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information contained in them. Neither the Commission, nor any person acting on the Commission’s behalf, may be held responsible for the content or the information posted here. Views and opinions that violate the Commission’s feedback rules will be removed from the site.

Contact the European Commission
Follow the European Commission on social media
Resources for partners
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility